---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-gat/52-07/"}
---


> [!NOTE] ข้อสอบ GAT กรกฎาคม ปี 2552
> มีทั้งหมด 4 ส่วน
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/52-07#! 52-07-P1 Speaking\|Part 1 Speaking ]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/52-07#! 52-07-P2 Vocabulary\|Part 2 Vocabulary]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/52-07#! 52-07-P3 Structure and Writing\|Part 3 Structure and Writing]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/52-07#! 52-07-P4 Reading\|Part 4 Reading]]**

---
# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/52-07-p1-speaking/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">





# Part One: Speaking (Items 1-15)
**Choose the best answer.**
#### 1. 
> A: He's mad because of what I said. isn’t he?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
 
1. That's the golden rule.
2. That has nothing to do with it.
3. That really brought him home.
4. That should work.

---
#### 2. 
> A: Your car is in excellent condition now. it’s \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
> B: Thank you so much for fixing it!
 
1. back to square one
2. as good as new
3. almost finished
4. too old to repair

---
#### 3. 
> A: So, how did you do on the exam?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
> A: Oh, it can’t be that bad.

1. I probably got an A or B.
2. I can’t see the point.
3. I kept a low profile.
4. I'm positive I've failed again.

---
#### 4.
> A: Do you know what the battery life is?
> B: I couldn’t say. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_. Look it over. It should answer all of your questions.
> A: Okay, thanks.

1. Here's a brochure.
2. I think it’s about 48 hours.
3. Have a look at the battery.
4. You need to check the internet.

---
#### 5.
> A: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> B: Well, I've forgotten my eye glasses at home.

1. What went wrong?
2. What's what?
3. What does it matter?
4. What's more?

---
## Items 6-7
 
> A: Would you like to have dinner at the Samurai with me?
> B: Oh, yes, \_\_\_\_(6)\_\_\_\_, but the Samurai is so expensive.
> A: Yes, it's too expensive for me. Would you like to pay for me?
> B: \_\_\_\_(7)\_\_\_\_!
> A: Just kidding!

#### 6.
1. I'd like to handle it
2. I don’t want that
3. I don’t earn much
4. I love eating out

---
#### 7.
1. Believe me!
2. Hey, wait a minute!
3. I do apologize!
4. I couldn't believe my eyes!

---
## Items 8-10

> A: What time are we going to the Smith’s for dinner tonight?
> B: We need to be there at 7:00. Did you remember to arrange for a \_\_\_\_(8)\_\_\_\_ to come over?
> A: Yes, but I need to tell her to \_\_\_\_(9)\_\_\_\_ 6:30.
> B: Which one is coming? Amanda or Meredith?
> A: Amanda. I know you don’t ever want Meredith here again.
> B: Well. \_\_\_\_(10)\_\_\_\_. Its just that Meredith gives the kids too much junk food.

#### 8.
1. baby boomer
2. baby shower
3. baby sitter
4. baby doctor

---
#### 9.
1. be here by
2. phone here at
3. come here after
4. go there before

---
#### 10.
1. Let's go halves.
2. Things got out of hand.
3. This is off the topic.
4. That's putting it strongly.

---
## Items 11-15

> **In a canteen, the office workers are discussing about the problem that one of their friends is having.**
>
> A: I'm worried about Roberto. He's gambling again. He’s been betting a lot on the European football games.
> B: Has he lost much money?
> A: Well, he says \_\_\_\_(11)\_\_\_\_, but who knows if that’s true or not.
> C: Last year he lost several thousand dollars.
> D: I remember. And then he had to borrow money from his family to pay his bills. \_\_\_\_(12)\_\_\_\_?
> C: Well, it’s his problem. We've talked to him many times about it. \_\_\_\_(13)\_\_\_\_ at least. I hope he doesn’t lose again.
> A: He's such a good guy. I wish he would stop gambling. But, \_\_\_\_(14)\_\_\_\_ until he really loses a lot. It sounds bad
today, but, it would be the best thing for him, I think.
> B: Do you think his family will help him again if he does lose a lot?
> D: I doubt it. It's happened so many times and they've helped him so many times. Last time, \_\_\_\_(15)\_\_\_\_ of the problem if he did it again.
> C: Sometimes it takes tough love to help someone.
> A: You can say that again.
> B: Well, let's just hope for the best.

#### 11.
1. he’s still ahead
2. he’s already torn apart
3. he’s yet to get across
4. he’s even adequate

---
#### 12.
1. Why should we do the trick on him?
2. Could we do him in?
3. What are we going to do with him?
4. How will we do away with him?

---
#### 13.
1. Maybe he will break even
2. For sure I would play safe
3. I wonder if you can lose heart
4. He has to get a rip off

---
#### 14.
1. I disagree he will suggest the way
2. I'm afraid he can’t accept the fact
3. I don’t think he’s going to learn his lesson
4. I do care if he realizes his destiny

---
#### 15.
1. they complained he was making a mess
2. they argued they were bearing it in mind
3. they said they were washing their hands
4. they decided they were hanging him out

---

</div></div>


---

# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/52-07-p2-vocabulary/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Part Two: Vocabulary (Items 16-30)
## Items 16-20: One doesn’t belong.
**Three of the words in each group relate to each other somehow. Choose the word that does not belong with others.**
#### 16.
1. absurd
2. practical
3. possible
4. feasible

---
#### 17.
1. complete
2. through
3. inclusive
4. comprehensive

---
#### 18.
1. determined
2. persistent
3. exultant
4. tenacious

---
#### 19.
1. lenient
2. strict
3. supple
4. yielding

---
#### 20.
1. rest
2. relax
3. uptight
4. unwind

---
## Items 21-25: Analogy
**The two given words arc associated somehow in their meaning. Choose the pair that has the same kind of relationship.**

#### 21. laziness: behavior
1. plate: food
2. flask: bottle
3. lipstick: look
4. window: house

---
#### 22. pretense: reality
1. hurt: torture
2. contract: promise
3. honesty: morality
4. ignorance: knowledge

---
#### 23. boredom: energy
1. fondness: charm
2. sadness: emotion
3. nervousness: leisure
4. carelessness: practice

---
#### 24. footnote: page
1. root: plant
2. sludge: river
3. earthworm: soil
4. flower: vase

---
#### 25. cellulose: wall
1. mood: manners
2. curtain: furniture
3. attic: building
4. wheat: cereals

---
## Items 26-30: Meaning in context
**Choose the best answer to make the sentences meaningful.**

#### 26. 
> During winter, there is always the chance of ice or snowstorm. With these storms come the possibility of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ in electronic devices.
1. intermissions
2. intersections
3. interruptions
4. interventions

---
#### 27. 
> Taking care of your teeth helps prevent \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, which is a clear \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ that sticks to your teeth.
1. fluoride...acid
2. gum...paste
3. plaque...film
4. bacteria...enamel

---
#### 28. 
> The story of the Olympic athletes is one of personal \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ and dedication to be the best in the world and a desire to represent the people of the country with \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. temptations...prize
2. sacrifices...pride
3. capabilities...ambition
4. incentives...success

---
#### 29. 
> After five years of study, scientists concluded that the average\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ level in Cairo from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. is 85 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, a bit louder than a freight train only 15 feet away.
1. talk...bytes
2. clatter...hertz
3. sound...joules
4. noise...decibels

---
#### 30. 
> Economists tend to like price \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, because it allows wealthier purchasers to subsidize sales to poor \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, while maximizing profits.
1. equity...retailers
2. management...consumers
3. discrimination...customers
4. profitability...pensioners

---


</div></div>


---

# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/52-07-p3-structure-and-writing/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Part Three: Structure and Writing (Items 31-45)
**Read the following statements and choose the underlined part that is grammatically wrong.**

#### 31.
> Everyone has (1) <u>occasionally</u> (2) <u>sleepless</u> nights, usually (3) <u>associated with</u> states of emotional arousal such as worry, anxiety, (4) <u>or</u> excitement.

---
#### 32.
> Studies of (1) <u>early</u> cave art shows a level of culture that was (2) <u>anything but</u> “primitive” —and that human beings have a long record of (3) <u>communicating</u> knowledge and (4) <u>believe</u>.

---
#### 33.
> When petroleum (1) <u>is processed</u> into (2) <u>plastic</u>, it is no longer biodegradable, and (3) <u>in which</u> can clog up (4) <u>landfills</u> indefinitely.

---
#### 34.
> (1) <u>Although</u> many eateries publish caloric information on their web sites, or even on (2) <u>food packaging</u>, advocates of labeling say (3) <u>diners</u> need to be able to read the information (4) <u>while decided</u> what to do.

---
#### 35.
> Life is (1) <u>so fragile</u> and we don’t know what will happen tomorrow, (2) <u>so experience</u> what you (3) <u>have given</u> because you don’t know how long it is going (4) <u>to last</u>.

---
## Items 36-40
Choose the best answer to complete the sentence.
#### 36. 
> A man appeared in a London court recently \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. was charged and drunk for taking care of a baby in a pram
2. charged with being drunk while in charge of a pram with a baby in it
3. on a charge of being a drunkard to entertain a baby kept in a pram
4. to be charged for being drunk to take care of a baby sleeping in a pram

---
#### 37. 
> For the Smithsonian, the name alone invokes endless possibilities, from art collections to scientific discoveries to a showcase of American treasures, and \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. is a place like no other
2. a place it is not like other
3. a different is place from others
4. it is no place like another place

---
#### 38. 
> The Sphinx is a carving of the body of a lion with a head of a king or a god \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_. It is a magnificent monument in Egypt.
1. is about 200 feet long and 65 feet high
2. which stands as a symbol of strength and wisdom
3. and suggests that it was built by King Khafre
4. resembling the colorful head piece attire by the pharaohs

---
#### 39. 
> Although the study to become a Tea Master in Japan is long and demanding, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. it is a lifetime's work
2. it is also fun and rewarding
3. it is to complete the training process
4. it is a skill for communication

---
#### 40. 
> The mind, by nature is universal \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ as it offers a taste of the meditative peace that lies beyond.
1. warranting for investigation
2. to investigation warrant
3. but investigation for
4. and warrants investigation

---
## Items 41-45
Choose the given choices to fill in the blanks.

### Items 41-42

> Diamonds are precious stones that can be categorized according to their color and hardness. \_\_\_\_(41)\_\_\_\_. Many variations of color arc also found depending on the impurities present. Strongly colored gem diamonds are extremely rare and valuable. When a diamond is set into metal, the metal can affect its color. \_\_\_\_(42)\_\_\_\_. Hardness is the measure of a substance's resistance to being scratched, and only a diamond can scratch another diamond. Diamonds are the hardest substances known.

#### 41.
1. Diamonds are usually clear or pale blue.
2. The color in diamonds do not necessarily reduce their beauty
3. Diamond color is considered when determining their quality and value.
4. When the amount of color increases. the price of diamonds decreases.

---
#### 42.
1. Diamonds are very costly.
2. Diamonds are also renowned for their hardness.
3. Diamonds must be cut to enhance their brightness.
4. Most diamonds used as gemstones are basically transparent.

---
### Item 43
 
> \_\_\_\_(43)\_\_\_\_. After a kill, the tiger drags or carries its victim out of sight to feed. The tiger usually begins with the hindquarters, but will eventually eat almost every part of its prey, including the skin and the hair, which helps with digestion. The tiger can eat up to 66 Ibs of meat at one times and once it has eaten its fill, it covers the remains of its prey with leaves, returning to the carcass each night until it is finished. Like most big cats, it will even eat meat that has begun to rot.

#### 43.
1. Realizing the danger, the startled prey tries to flee.
2. The tiger can kill prey large enough for several meals.
3. The tiger's massive build is a key to its mating success.
4. The tiger's claws are used to grip prey and scratch trees.

---
### Item 44
 
> Life insurance is a risk-management tool for the public. Underwriting criteria is thus based on risks met by the general population. Anyone found to have higher risk than the general population could face higher premiums, limits in protection, or even denials of their applications. An international insurance company’s applications are judged based on various factors, including sex, occupation, health history and lifestyle. Insurance insiders also say it is not unusual that companies would take steps to limit their high-risk groups such as smokers or persons with past drugs addictions. Many firms require AIDS tests prior to offering coverage, particularly for persons from high-risk jurisdictions such as in many provinces that AIDS is a particular problem. Therefore, an insurance company has no explicit policies against homosexual clients, \_\_\_\_(44)\_\_\_\_.

#### 44.
1. and the high-risk applicants should be considered based on their occupation and lifestyle.
2. or has to require the AIDS test before the insurance company’s offering full coverage.
3. while the applicant's personal lifestyle will be considered prior to those High-risk factors
4. but the company reserves the right to consider applicants based on risk factors related to personal lifestyle

---
### Item 45

> \_\_\_\_(45)\_\_\_\_. It is an inflammatory disease of the joints that occurs in more than 100 forms. most often involving some joint degeneration. The most common forms of this crippling disease are osteoarthritis, which rends to damage larger weight-bearing joints, and rheumatoid arthritis, which affects up to 10 million people, and tends to begin in smaller joints. In rheumatoid arthritis, an autoimmune disease. there may be a sudden, initial attack. In osteoarthritis, also called degenerative joint disease, the onsel is more subtle.

#### 45.
1. Arthritis means “fires in joints.”
2. Arthritis may start ofT as morning stiffness.
3. An arthritis pain is a result of your joints being swollen.
4. When arthritis gets worse. you likely end up at your doctors office.

---

</div></div>


# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/52-07-p4-reading/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Part Four: Reading (Items 46-60)
**Read the following text and choose the best answer.**

## Items 46-50
> People around the country are calling for action to stop global warming on Earth Day. They are making their voices heard by sending the attached postcard to their elected officials, asking them to support the Clean Energy Agenda. This agenda encourages the transition to more efficient and renewable energy sources in order to combat climate change and protect human health. 
> 
> For this Earth Day clean energy agenda. a rapid transition energy efficiency and renewable energy will curb global warming and protect our health, air, water, wildlife and economy. People are urged to endorse this agenda and work to achieve:
>
> Clean power: Switch to clean, renewable energy sources such as solar and wind power.
>
> Clean air: Clean up dirty. inefficient coal-fired power plants.
>
> Clean cars: Require production of cleaner, high mileage vehicles. hold SUVs to the same standard as cars, and encourage the rapid introduction of advanced technology vehicles.
>
> Clean investments: Stop subsidizing the coal, oil, and nuclear industries, and dramatically expand investment in energy efficiency and clean, renewable energy.

#### 46. How would you describe the text?
1. suggestive
2. persuasive
3. interrogative
4. evaluative

---
#### 47. Which of the following statements would the writer be LEAST likely to agree with?
1. People the world over should take action to stop global warming on Earth Day.
2. The Earth Day clean energy agenda shouldn't be supported to prevent climate change and save human health.
3. People’s voices for protecting clean air. water, power, and investments are supported to achieve their goal.
4. Health, air. water. wild life. and economy are all significant attributes

---
#### 48. Which of the following would least be affected by the writer's agenda?
1. artists
2. scientists
3. technologists
4. industrialists

---
#### 49. What is the text mainly about?
1. Clean Energy Agenda
2. Earth Day
3. Global Warming
4. Renewable Energy Sources

---
#### 50. What is the writer primarily concerned with?
1. discussing the possible increased levels of human health risks
2. challenging people to take a serious action to stop global warming
3. explaining the effects of global warming on human life and nature
4. identifying the factors contributing to the economic growth rate

---
## Items 51-55
> Daisies
> I like daisies.
> They have such happy faces.
> Some will say
> That flowers don’t have faces.
> There are petals and stems
> But not faces!
> 
> I like daisies.
> They smile openly
> And know the sun intimately.
>
> I like daisies.
> Someone told me once
> That daisy means
> The “eye of the day.”
> 	(Curry, 1981)

#### 51. What is presented in the first stanza?
1. a classification
2. a definition
3. a comparison
4. a discussion

---
#### 52. Which is the main purpose of this poem?
1. To express the poet's many reasons for liking daisies
2. To describe the floral structure of the daisy
3. To show different perspectives on daisies
4. To illustrate the popularity of daisies

---
#### 53. What does the poet do in the second stanza?
1. Giving the natural characteristics of daisies
2. Telling how much the poet likes daisies
3. Using a metaphor to describe a daisy’s characteristics
4. Comparing daisies with the relationships among people

---
#### 54. What does the “eye of the day” mean?
1. Daisies open up with the sun light.
2. The word “daisy” comes from the word “day”.
3. Daisies look like human eyes.
4. The poet sees eye to eye with his girl friend.

---
#### 55. What is the poet’s attitudes towards daisies?
1. discursive
2. objective
3. positive
4. negative

---
## Items 56-60
> COPENHAGEN(AFP)—Greenland’s ice cap, which covers more than 80 percent of the island, is melting faster than expected because of global warming, a Danish researcher said on Monday.
> 
> The 1.8-million-square-kilometre (695.000-square-mile) ice cap. which accounts for 10 percent of the planets fresh water. is losing about 257 cubic kilometers (62 cubic miles) of ice per year.
> 
> In 2080. it is expected to lose 463 cubic kilometers (111 cubic miles) per year, according to new estimates presented by a Danish-US team of scientists at the International Research Center in Fairbanks, Alaska.
> 
> The net loss in 2080 would be “81 percent greater than today™ and would cause “sea levels to rise by 107 millimeters” (4.2 inches), the team’s head researcher Sebastian Mernild said in a statement received in Copenhagen.
> Satellite observations show that “the global water level has since 1993 risen by three millimeters (0.11 inches) per year, or at a much more accelerated pace than during the last century” when it rose by 1.7 millimeter (0.06 inches) per year, he said.
>
> “The ice cap’s melting season beat a new record in 2007, corresponding to a loss of 50 percent of the ice’s total surface. And this record will not be the last one,” he warned.
>
> “The ice melt at the end of the 2070s will rise to 66 percent, or about 1,204 million square kilometers.” said Mernild. adding that the melting process was “occurring at faster rate than previously predicted.”
>
> The research team’s calculations, based on climate models and the UN climate panel's predicted scenarios. showed that “the average air temperature (in Greenland) will rise by some 2.7 degrees by the end of the century,” he said.

#### 56. What type of text is this?
1. a newspaper report
2. a research chapter
3. a magazine article
4. a minute of the meeting

---
#### 57. According to the text, all of the following are true, EXCEPT :
1. Global warming is the main cause of Greenland’s ice melt.
2. Many of the world's coastlines could soon be flooded by rising seas.
3. Greenland’s ice cap melting is now a real possibility.
4. Greenland’s ice sheet is moving faster than expected.

---
#### 58. What would be the best title for this text?
1. The Rapid Melting of Greenland’s Ice Cap
2. The Awareness of Natural Disaster in Greenland
3. The Future Melting Rates of Greenland's lee Retreat
4. The Melting Phase of the Ice’s Total Surface in Greenland

---
#### 59. Which of the following is NOT the result of melting ice in Greenland?
1. the sea level fall
2. the climate change
3. the greenhouse effect
4. the rising temperature

---
#### 60. How would you describe the tone of the text?
1. argumentative
2. informative
3. imaginative
4. declarative

---


</div></div>


---