---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-gat/63/"}
---


> [!NOTE] ข้อสอบความถนัดทั่วไป (GAT) ปี 2563
> มีทั้งหมด 4 ส่วน
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/63#! 63-P1 Expressions\|Part 1 Expressions]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/63#! 63-P2 Vocabulary\|Part 2 Vocabulary]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/63#! 63-P3 Reading\|Part 3 Reading]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/63#! 63-P4 Structure and Writing\|Part 4 Structure and Writing]]**

---
# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/63-p1-expressions/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Part One: Expressions (Items 1-15)
Choose the best answer.

> **Cleaning Up (Items 1-3)**
> Liza : Hi, Jane. What are you doing? Are you moving?
> Jane : No, I’m just cleaning my room. As you can see, it’s so messy.
> Liza : Yes, I can see that. \_\_\_\_\_\_(1)\_\_\_\_\_\_.
> Jane : You’re such an angel. I really appreciate your offer.
> **One hour later**
> Jane : Whew! That was tiring. Thank you again, Liza...Hmm... Are you free to stay here longer? \_\_\_\_\_\_(2)\_\_\_\_\_\_.
> Liza : Oh, that would be wonderful!
> Jane : Great! Give me a few minutes and I’ll \_\_\_\_\_\_(3)\_\_\_\_\_\_.
> Liza : That’s really nice of you. Now, I don’t have to go to your restaurant to taste you cooking. Thank you, Jane.

---
#### 1. 
1. You’re diligent
2. Let me help you
3. Nobody can bear you
4. Leave it like that
5. Don’t stop working

---
#### 2.
1. I would like to have a party
2. We can now take a rest
3. I would like to cook something for you
4. We can move on to the next project
5. I need a vacation

---
#### 3.
1. go to work at my restaurant
2. go to bed early
3. shop for the ingredients
4. make something tasty
5. take you to my restaurant

---
> **At a restaurant (Items 4-5)**
> Tim : Are you done with your dinner? Let’s go home. \_\_\_\_\_\_(4)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> Amy : No more than 20 baht.
> Tim : Why do you think that? \_\_\_\_\_\_(5)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> Amy : No, not at all. The service was slow, and the soup was cold.

---
#### 4.
1. What currency do they accept
2. What is the price of this dinner
3. How much money do you have
4. What is the parking fee
5. How much of a tip should we leave

---
#### 5.
1. Isn’t that too little
2. Are you in a hurry
3. Did you have a great time
4. Couldn’t you hear me
5. Shall we order a cup of coffee

---
> **At work (Items 6-7)**
> Sean : You look really tired. \_\_\_\_\_\_(6)\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
> George : Well, I think I’m okay for now. I’ll wait until the meeting is over and then go home.
> Sean : I don’t think you’ll make it. You can’t even keep your eyes open.
> George : I guess you’re right. Last night, \_\_\_\_\_\_(7)\_\_\_\_\_\_ because of the noisy party next door.
> Sean : Well, I hope you can get some sleep tonight.

---
#### 6.
1. You’re feeling better today than yesterday.
2. You’d better go home and take a rest.
3. What do you think of the meeting?
4. You couldn’t think any more.
5. How are things going at home?

---
#### 7.
1. my alarm clock did not go off
2. I fell asleep while watching TV
3. my neighbors were very angry
4. I wasn’t able to sleep
5. I went to bed too early

---
> **At university (Items 8-10)**
> Teacher : Hi Sam. The project is due next week. \_\_\_\_\_\_(8)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> Sam : Well, I’ve decided on the topic but haven’t started the research yet.
> Teacher : You’re a bit behind. I’m worried that \_\_\_\_\_\_(9)\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
> Sam : I know. Actually, I went to the library yesterday and found an interesting book that will help, but the book \_\_\_\_\_\_(10)\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
> Teacher : That’s not a big deal. If you start reading it now, you’ll have finished it by the end of the day.

---
#### 8.
1. Is it going to be challenging
2. Have you learned how to collect research data
3. Are your friends helping you
4. Do you like your research topic
5. Have you nearly finished it

---
#### 9.
1. your friends cannot wait for you to complete
2. the topic you chose might be a bit problematic
3. you won’t have enough time to finish the paper
4. the data collected might not be enough
5. you need to change the research topic

---
#### 10.
1. has over 100 pages
2. has been checked out
3. is quite expensive
4. was published 5 years ago
5. looks quite new

---
> **Holiday (Items 11-12)**
> Frank : I heard you’re taking a French class at the community college.
> Jerry : Yes, I’m going to Paris next summer and I think \_\_\_\_\_\_(11)\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
> Frank : That makes sense. I’m visiting my brother in China next year, so maybe I should take a Chinese class.
> Jerry : I picked up a brochure at college the other day that should contain information on the courses available. \_\_\_\_\_\_(12)\_\_\_\_\_\_ if you’d like to take a look and find out.

---
#### 11.
1. French is one of the most beautiful languages
2. French people will like me
3. the weather there will be just wonderful
4. knowing some French will make the trip easier
5. your family can join me on this trip

---
#### 12.
1. The community college offers scholarships
2. I have the brochure with me now
3. The registration fee can be negotiated
4. China’s not too far away
5. The Chinese language is quite popular

---
> **Lunchtime conversation (Items 13-15)**
> Julia : You haven’t been looking the best recently. \_\_\_\_\_\_(13)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> Sarah : Yes, yesterday I took my mom to the hospital again due to her high blood sugar.
> Julia : Come on. You don’t need to worry too much about that. \_\_\_\_\_\_(14)\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
> Sarah : Yeah, I suppose so. All she has to do is \_\_\_\_\_\_(15)\_\_\_\_\_\_ . In fact, she hasn’t eaten white bread for quite a while now.

---
#### 13.
1. Is it a busy day at work
2. Is it too hot in here
3. Is there anything wrong
4. Are you failing the test
5. Do you have financial problems

---
#### 14.
1. Almost everyone knows her
2. She has no health insurance
3. The hospital doctors are nice
4. Your mother is a great person
5. Blood sugar is easy to manage

---
#### 15.
1. follow a more strict diet
2. exercise more often
3. stay in a good mood
4. keep her young looks
5. see the doctor on a regular basis

---


</div></div>


---

# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/63-p2-vocabulary/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Part Two: Vocabulary (Items 16-30)
Choose the best answer.

#### 16. 
> In recent years, scientists and clinicians have been \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ to develop treatments for Alzheimer’s disease.
1. collaborating
2. approaching
3. forecasting
4. demonstrating
5. residing

---
#### 17.
The chairperson’s great leadership and hard work have brought the company to
the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of its industry.
1. integration
2. forefront
3. realization
4. position
5. benefit

---
#### 18.
> John spends about six hours a day at the gym doing weight training, yoga, and cycling. His \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ for exercise is well-known.
1. attempt
2. acceptance
3. admiration
4. mania
5. fallacy

---
#### 19.
> My parents are so \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_. They don’t like to buy new things because they believe it is important to save for the future.
1. exciting
2. complicated
3. conservative
4. modern
5. delighted

---
#### 20.
> Even at eight, Erin had the hands of a/an \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ artist. You could see it in her amazing watercolor paintings.
1. tiny
2. skilled
3. innocent
4. diligent
5. average

---
#### 21.
> After the plane crash, a committee was set up to <u>determine</u> the causes of the accident.
1. cover
2. control
3. prevent
4. state
5. identify

---
#### 22.
> Some Internet users avoid using their real names when expressing their opinions online to avoid <u>jeopardizing</u> their jobs and relationship with others.
1. questioning
2. rejecting
3. endangering
4. switching
5. maintaining

---
#### 23.
> It is well documented that chocolate can have a <u>soothing</u> effect on your emotion by reducing your stress levels.
1. temporary
2. long-lasting
3. encouraging
4. calming
5. serious

---
#### 24.
> You should be careful with what you say about other religions because it can be <u>offensive</u> to some people.
1. insulting
2. dangerous
3. irresponsible
4. unfair
5. confusing

---
#### 25.
> Kate was successful in losing weight because she never <u>yielded</u> to her desire for sugar-rich foods.
1. called off
2. turned down
3. gave in
4. looked for
5. put off

---
#### 26.
> The writer, whose \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ was Belle, was famous. Most of her works were \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ in her hometown, Chiang Mai.
1. substitute, fit
2. mentor, drawn
3. successor, cast
4. pseudonym, set
5. perspective, sold

---
#### 27.
> Social psychologists have been \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ social networks and their \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ on human behavior.
1. analyzing, attempts
2. adopting, influences
3. investigating, impacts
4. conducting, implications
5. presenting, consequence

---
#### 28.
> Some classes in university are \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ while others are elective. Most classes that freshmen take cover the foundations for more \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ classes.
1. prescribed, upper
2. involuntary, difficult
3. recommended, mixed
4. compulsory, advanced
5. introductory, continuing

---
#### 29.
> Given the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of rubber, it was \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ that prices would start to fall.
1. oversupply, inevitable
2. advancement, uncertain
3. engineering, undeniable
4. development, irrational
5. deployment, disclosed
---
#### 30.
> When Anon bought this piece of land, he was \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ that his investment would pay off \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. pleased, largely
2. amazed, heavily
3. surprised, hugely
4. hopeful, extremely
5. confident, greatly

---

</div></div>


---

# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/63-p3-reading/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Part Three: Reading (Items 31-45)
Choose the best answer.

### Passage 1 (Items 31-35)
> Feng shui is a traditional Chinese concept linking the destiny of man to his environment. The principles of feng shui have existed for thousands of years. Pictures of animals and symbols connected with feng shui have been found in caves which date back to prehistory. It also has connections to many religions.
> 
> Feng shui was first used in China in the siting of graves. Later it was used to identify safe locations where families would be able to **flourish**. It was also used to site palaces and public monuments. Even whole cities were built according to feng shui concepts.
> 
> Western reactions to the practice of feng shui have varied. In the 19th century, the general response was negative, and they described the practice as superstitious. However, academic studies since the 1960s have viewed the practice as a legitimate aspect of traditional culture.
> 
> Many architects consider feng shui to be important to the design of homes and interiors. Certainly, utilizing feng shui’s principles does not mean the western world has fully accepted it. However, the adoption of feng shui principles across the globe is a sign of the globalization of Eastern culture.

---
#### 31. It is believed that feng shui has been around since prehistory because \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. its tools were found in ancient sites
2. it was connected to ancient religions
3. its symbols were found on cave walls
4. it indicated where graves were
5. prehistoric men believed in destiny

---
#### 32. Feng shui was first used in China to choose locations for \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. graves
2. houses
3. palaces
4. monuments
5. cities

---
#### 33. The word “flourish” means \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. stay
2. grow
3. bond
4. gather
5. resettle

---
#### 34. Before the 1960s, feng shui was viewed in the west as \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. practical
2. secretive
3. nonsense
4. frightening
5. inappropriate

---
#### 35. Which of the following **CANNOT** be concluded from the passage?
1. Feng shui is an invaluable Chinese wisdom.
2. Feng shui reached the west as a result of globalization.
3. Feng shui is now fully accepted around the world.
4. Some westerners have changed their point of view towards feng shui.
5. A lot of architects are willing to follow feng shui principles.

---
### Passage 2 (Items 36-40)
> If you have ever looked to go on a river cruise in Europe, chances are you will have narrowed down the choices to two renowned rivers: the Rhine and the Danube. The Rhine flows through Germany while the Danube runs primarily through Austria.
> 
> The cruises usually offer land excursions to charming towns. Attractions are within walking distance from where your ship docks. Because these two rivers are major waterways, almost all local river cruise lines operate on these routes, meaning that you have plenty of choices to choose from.
> 
> Both rivers span Europe’s best scenery, passing cities, castles and many inspiring landscapes. On the Rhine, two of the biggest stops are in the cities of Amsterdam and Cologne. However, be mindful that the Rhine is an industrial river, so working vessels also share the waterway. On the Danube, you have Budapest, with its castle on the hill, along with Vienna, where you can catch a classical music performance or opera almost any night. The scenery is a little greener on the Danube. If you like castles and cathedrals, both rivers will **fit the bill**. On the Rhine, cruises often stop at a 700-year-old castle. On the Danube, you’ll either stop at Melk or Krems, where there are churches.

---
#### 36. Travelers who are fans of opera would love \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. Melk
2. Krems
3. Cologne
4. Budapest
5. Vienna

---
#### 37. The phrase “**fit the bill**” means be \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. manageable
2. suitable
3. profitable
4. economical
5. costly

---
#### 38. One of the **DISADVANTAGES** of the Rhine cruise is that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. it only makes two stops
2. it does not dock at big cities
3. passengers will not see any castle
4. its scenery is not as green as the Danube’s
5. the river is quieter compared to the Danube

---
#### 39. According to the passage, which of the following statement is **NOT TRUE** about Rhine and Danube cruises?
1. Both cruises are suitable for travelers interested in castles.
2. When ships dock, travelers can walk to nearby attractions.
3. Traffic is to be expected on both rivers because they are the main rivers in Europe.
4. Travelers need to take a shuttle bus to visit sites during land excursions.
5. Travelers can easily find a good deal themselves because there are many cruises available.

---
#### 40. What is the best main idea of the passage?
1. A river cruise is the best way to experience the taste of Europe.
2. The only two rivers worth cruising are the Danube and the Rhine
3. A river cruise offers travelers opportunities to visit multiple cities.
4. Both the Rhine and the Danube are great options for a river cruise.
5. If you are visiting Europe for the first time, you should take a river cruise

---
### Passage 3 (Items 41-45)
> Eskimos came to North America from Siberia. So how did they cross the Pacific Ocean? More than 10,000 years ago, there was a land bridge connecting Siberia and Alaska. We cannot see the area today because when the Ice Age ended, ice mountains melted causing ocean water to rise and cover the bridge.
> 
> In the past, Eskimos caught fish and hunted seals for food. Because seal skins were sturdy, Eskimos used them for covering the freezing floors. At times, hunting parties would go inland to hunt caribou, large north American reindeer. Their skins were warmer, and much lighter compared to seal skins, so they were used for clothing and making tents.
> 
> Eskimos lived in tents during summer, but in the winter, they lived in igloos. Igloos were made from blocks of hard-packed snow. The blocks were three feet long, one-and-a-half feet wide, and five inches in height. The blocks were piled up and fitted together. But they were not piled up straight, rather they were set in spiral form. The spiral became smaller toward the top. In this way, a dome was formed. To let some light in, Eskimos set a thin slab of ice into a wall. Igloos stood through the winter because the temperature was very low. Eskimos live in one of the coldest and harshest regions in the world

---
#### 41. The land bridge between Siberia and Alaska \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. melted down after the Ice Age
2. was flooded by water from melted ice
3. was created by the nature after the Ice Age
4. was made by the Eskimos as a path to Alaska
5. disappeared because of a quake after the Ice Age

---
#### 42. Igloos were made by \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. fitting snow blocks together
2. piling thin slabs of ice
3. building the blocks straight up
4. forming blocks that were five feet long
5. shaping a large block of ice to form a dome

---
#### 43. Based on the passage, the Eskimos \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. moved to North America because ice mountains were melting
2. hunted seals for food, clothing, and sports
3. wore seal skins when hunting because they were light
4. made their homes from blocks of snow in the summer
5. survived the harsh cold by adapting to the environment

---
#### 44. The passage is generally about \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. igloos
2. hunting in winter
3. the land bridge
4. Eskimo life
5. the Ice Age

---
#### 45. It can be concluded from the passage that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. Eskimos disliked living in Alaska
2. Eskimos were hardy and strong people
3. Alaska is very dangerous and nobody lives there
4. some Eskimos lived in tents while others lived in igloos
5. the winters in Alaska were too tough for humans to survive

---


</div></div>


---
# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/63-p4-structure-and-writing/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Part Four: Structure and Writing (Items 46-60)

### Items 46-50
Choose the underlined part that is grammatically wrong

#### 46.
> More than (1) <u>two-thirds</u> of parents are (2) <u>unaware that</u> how much exercise (3) <u>their</u> children should (4) <u>be doing</u> to keep (5) <u>healthy</u>.

---
#### 47.
> People (1) <u>sometimes</u> pose for selfies (2) <u>amidst</u> dangerous settings (3) <u>such as</u> mountain tops, tall building and water bodies (4) <u>as to</u> gain attention (5) <u>on</u> social media sites.

---
#### 48.
> People with (1) <u>autism</u> have problems with social interaction and communication, (2) <u>so</u> they (3) <u>may</u> have trouble (4) <u>to hold</u> a conversation with (5) <u>other people</u>.

---
#### 49.
> Most people in Britain (1) <u>regularly</u> recycle plastic (2) <u>but</u> almost half (3) <u>has</u> had disagreements at home (4) <u>about</u> what type they can put in (5) <u>which bin</u>.

---
#### 50.
> Earthworms (1) <u>have been long</u> considered a (2) <u>gardener’s</u> best friend (3) <u>since</u> they (4) <u>can</u> transform dead plants and leaves (5) <u>into</u> nutrients for the soil

---
### Items 51-55
Choose the best answer
> Since entering a new era with technology and social media dominating our lives, new professions \_\_\_(51)\_\_\_. For some people, the word “YouTuber” might sound unfamiliar. \_\_\_(52)\_\_\_, this profession has become a huge trend among the young generation who has grown up surrounded by smartphones and computers. \_\_\_(53)\_\_\_ a report published by the Digital Mobile Radio Association, there are 1.5 billion logged-in monthly users on YouTube. In addition, about 576,000 hours’ worth of videos \_\_\_(54)\_\_\_ every day. Most importantly, 1,500 YouTube channels have more than 1 million subscribers. From these statistics, we can understand that YouTube has become a channel \_\_\_(55)\_\_\_ almost every day and it might be treated as a replacement for television for the Millennials and Gen X

---
#### 51.
1. appear
2. are appearing
3. appeared
4. have appeared
5. will appear

---
#### 52.
1. However
2. For this reason
3. In addition
4. Similarly
5. After that

---
#### 53.
1. In case of
2. Apart from
3. Thanks to
4. With respect to
5. According to

---
#### 54.
1. upload
2. are uploaded
3. have uploaded
4. had been uploading
5. will be uploading

---
#### 55.
1. people to visit
2. where to visit
3. that people visit
4. where do people visit
5. that people visiting

---
### Items 56-60
Choose the best answer
> (A) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_. Of course, (B) **there are instances when circumstances beyond our control might cause us to be late.** (C) Sometimes traffic really is unexpectedly bad. You might have an unexpected accident such as spilling coffee on your shirt or (D) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_. (E) Employees are expected to be on time and dependable in order to meet the needs of their company. (F) Job applicants are never late for job interviews. (G) When employees are absent or late, work and service are interrupted, (H) and an additional burden is placed on colleagues. (I) Therefore, to earn the respect you wish to have in the workplace, you (J) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

---
#### 56. Which one should be put in (A) as the topic sentence for this paragraph?
1. If people want to be successful academically, they must be on time
2. Being on time and being in time are evidently different
3. Being on time is essential, especially in the workplace
4. There are many reasons why people in business are late
5. Being on time is precious, but frequent lateness is also allowed

---
#### 57. Which one has the closest meaning to the highlighted part in (B)?
1. not everything can be controlled by people
2. being on time can be practiced in every situation
3. people who are in power will not be late
4. there are certain times when lateness cannot be avoided
5. occasional lateness can be forgiven

---
#### 58. Which sentence can be added after (D) to make a good paragraph?
1. having a sleeve of your shirt torn as it is caught by a hook
2. leaving a dirty coffee cup on the table and lots of ants come
3. washing your car on a rainy day because it is so dirty
4. having some white shirts both in your closet and in your car
5. leaving the doors of your car unlocked overnigh

---
#### 59. Which sentence does **NOT** really belong in this paragraph?
1. C
2. E
3. F
4. G
5. H


---
#### 60. What would be the best choice to conclude the last sentence (J)?
1. will not ruin your respect in a negative way
2. must be responsible for all your assignments
3. need to work harder for your organization
4. should be recognized for being late but not frequently
5. cannot ignore the impact of being on time

---


</div></div>


------
