---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-gat/64/"}
---


> [!NOTE] ข้อสอบความถนัดทั่วไป (GAT) ปี 2564
> มีทั้งหมด 4 ส่วน
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/64#! 64-P1 Expressions\|Part 1 Expressions]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/64#! 64-P2 Vocabulary\|Part 2 Vocabulary]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/64#! 64-P3 Reading\|Part 3 Reading]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/64#! 64-P4 Structure and Writing\|Part 4 Structure and Writing]]**

---
# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/64-p1-expressions/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Part I: Expressions (Items 1-15)
Choose the best answer

> **A good deal**
> A : Have you found a new apartment yet?
> B : Yeah. I finally found a cheaper place. Only $700 a month, all bills included. Plus, it's a two bedroom.
> A : Wow, that's a good deal. \_\_\_\_\_\_(1)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> B : Yeah, but I still want a bigger fridge. I wanna get a cheap one, but I haven't seen anything within my budget yet.
> A : You know what? \_\_\_\_\_\_(2)\_\_\_\_\_\_ until you find one.

#### 1. 
1. Did you buy it
2. Are you kidding
3. Is it really cheap
4. Is it serious
5. Is it furnished

---
#### 2.
1. You don’t need one
2. You don’t have to cook
3. I’ve an extra one you can use
4. You need to get a brand new one
5. I can stay with you

---
> **After a final exam**
> A : Now come on, calm down! It’s not the end of the world. It was just an exam.
> B : But \_\_\_\_\_\_(3)\_\_\_\_\_\_. I just don’t know why it happened.
> A : What happened?
> B : I’d just started on the third question when \_\_\_\_\_\_(4)\_\_\_\_\_\_. I completely forgot to check the clock.
> A : But you answered the first two questions, so stop worrying. I’m sure you did enough on those to pass.

#### 3.
1. it was absolutely awful
2. I thought it was too easy
3. it took me 3 hours to finish
4. it was too early in the morning
5. I did not put my name down on the exam

---
#### 4.
1. the lights went out
2. I dropped my pen
3. the teacher left
4. the time was up
5. I fell asleep

---
> **Playing basketball**
> Sean : Hey Joe. \_\_\_\_\_\_(5)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> Joe : Hey Sean. I’m meeting some friends at the park. We’re going to play basketball.
> Sean : It’s a great day for it. Nice and sunny.
> Joe : \_\_\_\_\_\_(6)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> Sean : I can’t today. I have a dentist appointment.
> Joe : What about next weekend? We get together every Saturday at 10 a.m. at the basketball court in the park.
> Sean : Do you think \_\_\_\_\_\_(7)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> Joe : Yeah. We could use another player. One guy hurt his knee and won’t be able to play for a while.

#### 5.
1. Where can we play basketball
2. Where’re you heading
3. What’ve you been doing
4. When is your appointment
5. What sport do you like best

---
#### 6.
1. Do you want to join us
2. Do you like basketball
3. Can you call the dentist
4. Can you drive me around town
5. Can you wait for summer to come

---
#### 7.
1. I’m too short for this sport
2. I will be the center of the team
3. your friend’ll be ok with a new guy joining
4. it’ll take long for the injured player to get better
5. it’s a bit too early for a new player like me to get up

---
> **Where are you from?**
> Kai : Where’re you from?
> Mod : I’m originally from a small village in Chiang Mai, but I grew up in Samut Sakhon for the most part.
> Kai : \_\_\_\_\_\_(8)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> Mod : My dad got a job there, so we moved when I was very young. How about you? \_\_\_\_\_\_(9)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> Kai : No. I’m originally from Hat Yai, Songkhla.

#### 8.
1. What happened
2. Where’s your dad
3. How far is it from Samut Sakhon
4. Why don’t you like Samut Sakhon
5. How was your childhood in Chiang Mai

---
#### 9.
1. Did your dad like it here
2. Do you know your origin
3. Are you from around here
4. Do you believe what I said
5. Are you staying with your dad

---
> **Online purchase**
> Rick : Did you finally receive the ring that you bought online three weeks ago?
> Ron : Nope. \_\_\_\_\_\_(10)\_\_\_\_\_\_. I’ll be a lot more careful in the future when I buy stuff from a website.
> Rick : How \_\_\_\_\_\_(11)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> Ron : It was $300. The seller refuses to refund anything.
> Rick : I hear this happens all the time. \_\_\_\_\_\_(12)\_\_\_\_\_\_ when the ring failed to arrive?
> Ron : Well, I contacted the seller of course. He said that the parcel was not insured, so now I’ve got no money to buy another.

#### 10.
1. I bought it from a department store
2. It is indeed beautiful
3. I didn’t pay for it eventually
4. I don’t need a ring anymore
5. It never arrived

---
#### 11.
1. much money do you have
2. much money did you lose
3. much money do I owe you
4. many times did you call the seller
5. many times have you bought stuff online

---
#### 12.
1. How did you feel
2. What did you do
3. Who would you like to meet
4. Why couldn’t you take it
5. Where did you get the number

---
> **A colleague**
> Mary : I heard that Tim, your colleague, is a difficult person to work with.
> John : Well, he’s very rude to customers and colleagues. \_\_\_\_\_\_(13)\_\_\_\_\_\_.
> Mary : Well, that doesn’t sound too good, does it? How \_\_\_\_\_\_(14)\_\_\_\_\_\_?
> John : Not well. He doesn’t know how to manage people, he doesn’t support his staff, and he blames everyone else for his problems.
> Mary : After 5 years working with him, tell me \_\_\_\_\_\_(15)\_\_\_\_\_\_.
> John : Well, he’s very punctual and very practical. But he recently shouted at a customer in the office. The company may fire him soon.

#### 13.
1. We wonder why he’s impressed with us
2. We’ve decided to make him feel happy here
3. We love the way he treats his customers
4. We had some doubts about his education
5. We’ve had lots of complaints about his behavior

---
#### 14.
1. well does he get paid
2. does he feel these days
3. did his staff treat him
4. does he manage his staff
5. good is he as a singer

---
#### 15.
1. whether he can be easily upset
2. if he’s still with you
3. how often he practices his customer service
4. what he’s good at
5. why he’s no longer with you

---


</div></div>


---

# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/64-p2-vocabulary/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">





# Part Two: Vocabulary (Items 16-30)
Choose the best answer.

#### 16. Students should know how to \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ information from different sources aside from the Internet.
1. design
2. correct
3. maintain
4. gather
5. adjust

---
#### 17. The manager \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Jane by firing her in front of all her colleagues.
1. criticized
2. deceived
3. flattered
4. disliked
5. humiliated

---
#### 18. Stone flooring is so \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ that it almost never wears out. In fact, with a little care, it will last the lifetime of your home.
1. protective
2. brittle
3. expensive
4. flexible
5. durable

---
#### 19. Rather than simply asking the boys, the principal \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ that they were fighting over a girl.
1. speculated
2. disguised
3. alleviated
4. applied
5. approved

---
#### 20. A lot of complaints received in the retail industry are about \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ staff. When customers need help, they want staff to help them, not play on their phones.
1. impeccable
2. unconscious
3. impartial
4. inattentive
5. incautious

---
#### 21. Caring and paying attention to detail are essential <u>attributes</u> for a good nurse.
1. categories
2. alternatives
3. qualities
4. advantages
5. assignments

---
#### 22. The vaccine must be tested <u>thoroughly</u> before it can be released for public use.
1. completely
2. instantly
3. scarcely
4. shortly
5. merely

---
#### 23. John Lennon’s “Imagine”, one of the 100 most-performed songs of the 20th century, is widely <u>recognized</u> to be the best song of all time.
1. utilized
2. predicted
3. recalled
4. considered
5. instilled

---
#### 24. The driving instructor had a <u>valid</u> reason to fail the overconfident driver when he drove through a red light.
1. sensible
2. unfair
3. exciting
4. approximate
5. minor

---
#### 25. Jim Thompson, known all over the world for saving the art of Thai silk, went missing in Malaysia’s Cameron Highlands. There has been no <u>trace</u> of him since.
1. interest
2. copy
3. sign
4. reason
5. history

---
#### 26. It is known that an applicant’s previous \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ can increase their chances of getting a job; however, job opportunities are currently quite limited and usually \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ with the strength of the economy.
1. salary, co-occur
2. position, compete
3. management, agree
4. administration, comply
5. experience, fluctuate

---
#### 27. Some microbiologists strongly believe that \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ will not \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ the disease.
1. collection, intimidate
2. isolation, eradicate
3. purification, appreciate
4. calculation, invigorate
5. vaccination, initiate

---
#### 28. The purpose of this program is to \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ language learning skills, while highlighting the
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ characteristics of the nation.
1. hinder, essential
2. restrict, constant
3. foster, prominent
4. collapse, vital
5. mobilize, imperative

---
#### 29. The doctors are finding it difficult to \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ the cause of Tom’s \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ headaches because they occur so infrequently.
1. highlight, sincere
2. identify, sporadic
3. regulate, simple
4. compile, severe
5. distinguish, chronic

---
#### 30. After he had \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ a large number of books on the American Civil War, he was \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ appointed professor of history.
1. purchased, inevitably
2. published, subsequently
3. recommended, spontaneously
4. accumulated, concurrently
5. inherited, intermittently

---


</div></div>


---

# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/64-p3-reading/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Part Three: Reading (Items 31-45)
Choose the best answer.

### Passage 1 (Items 31-35)
> The Diners Club Card, which **debuted** in 1950, was inspired a year earlier when a customer named Frank McNamara forgot his wallet while attending a business dinner at New York’s Major’s Cabin Grill. Months later, McNamara and his partner returned to the restaurant with a small cardboard card and a proposal that resulted in the Diners Club Card. Used mainly for travel and entertainment, the Diners Club Card claims the title of the first credit card in widespread use. By 1951, the Diners Club had 20,000 cardholders.
> 
> The American Express card, which launched in 1958, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ . Formed in 1850 as a competitor to the U.S. Postal Service. American Express had introduced money orders in 1882, invented traveler’s checks in 1891, and contemplated a travel charge card as early as 1946, before the Diners Club **beat it to the punch**. American Express would soon claim several milestones of its own by expanding its reach to other countries and introducing the first plastic card in 1959.

---
#### 31. The word “**debuted**” can be replaced by \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. extended
2. devalued
3. separated
4. distributed
5. appeared

---
#### 32. What incident led to the creation of the Diners Club Card?
1. Someone did not pay back some money to his partner.
2. A dinner at a restaurant in New York was very expensive.
3. Someone did not have any money to pay a bill at a restaurant.
4. Dining at Major’s Cabin Grill was popular among business partners.
5. The dinner at a restaurant was so good that customers kept returning.

---
#### 33. The best phrase to complete the blank is \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. includes a partner
2. uses the same material
3. represents another crisis
4. has a different history
5. involves another customer

---
#### 34. The phrase “**beat it to the punch**” means \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
1. clearly won a competition
2. hurt someone by using force
3. attacked someone in the face
4. was physically stronger than someone else
5. achieved something before someone else

---
#### 35. Which is **TRUE** based on the passage?
1. Credit cards were originally made of cardboard.
2. The old name of American Express was the U.S. Postal Office.
3. Cardboard was replaced by plastic because of its limited supply.
4. Traveler’s checks were more popular than money orders.
5. Major’s Cabin Grill only accepted payment using the Diners Club Card.

---
### Passage 2 (Items 36-40)
> The earliest recorded face mask-like objects in history are from the 6th century BC. Some images of people wearing cloth over their mouths were found on the doors of Persian tombs. In China, a kind of scarf woven with silk and gold threads from the Yuan Dynasty (1279-1368) is believed to be the earliest item in China that is similar to today’s face mask.
> 
> According to *The Travels of Marco Polo* written by an Italian who once traveled in China during the Yuan Dynasty (1279-1368), servants serving the emperor during meals needed to wear silk scarves to cover their mouths and noses. It was believed that the silk scarves would keep the servants’ breath from impacting the smell and taste of the food.
> 
> In the 14th century, **the Black Death** spread to Europe, greatly promoting the emergence of functional face mask-like objects to offer at least some protection. In the 16th century, a French doctor invented the beak mask, installing glass in the eye sockets to ensure visibility. Scented spices or medicines including mint leaves were placed in the beak section to filter out disease. That same century, Leonardo da Vinci proposed soaking cloth in water and placing it on his face in order to filter out toxic chemicals coming from people’s respiratory systems. **This effective method** is still widely used in fire escape guides today.

---
#### 36. In the first paragraph, which statement is **TRUE**?
1. The origins of face masks date back around 1,500 years.
2. Persian tombs depicting face masks were found in China.
3. Silk scarves were similar to current face masks in material.
4. People left their face masks on the doors of Persian Tombs.
5. Gold threads from the Yuan Dynasty were of the best quality.

---
#### 37. The function of silk scarves in the Yuan Dynasty was to \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
1. cover the servants’ mouths and noses from being seen in public
2. hide the identity of the emperor as required by tradition
3. hold the servants’ breath while serving food
4. assure that the emperor was the first one who could smell the food
5. maintain the smell and flavor of the food

---
#### 38. The Black Death was a(n) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
1. army
2. disease
3. treatment
4. organization
5. new invention

---
#### 39. The phrase “**This effective method**” refers to \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
1. cleaning respiratory systems
2. proposing new painting techniques
3. filtering out chemicals
4. using a soaked cloth as a filter
5. practicing fire drills

---
#### 40. The purpose of this passage is to \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
1. entertain
2. surprise
3. upset
4. inform
5. persuade

---
### Passage 3 (Items 41-45)
> In English, the word “salad” first appeared in the 14th century. Vegetables were seasoned with brine (a solution of salt in water) during Roman times. The phrase “salad days”, meaning a “time of youthful inexperience”, was first recorded by Shakespeare in 1606, while the use of salad bar, referring to a buffet-style serving of salad ingredients, first appeared in American English in the 1960s.
> 
> In his 1699 book, **John Evelyn attempted with little success to encourage his fellow Britons to eat fresh salad greens**. Mary, Queen of Scots, ate boiled celery root over greens covered with creamy mustard dressing, and slices of hard-boiled eggs.
> 
> Oil used on salads can be found in the mid-17th-century colony of New Netherland (later called New York, New Jersey and Delaware). In a 1665 letter to the Director of New Netherland from the Island of Curaçao: “*I request most amicably that __your honor__ be pleased to send me seed of every sort, such as cabbage, carrots, lettuce, parsley, etc. for none can be acquired here and I know that __your honor__ has plenty...*”.
> 
> Salads may be sold in supermarkets, at restaurants and at fast food chains. Salad restaurants earned more than $300 million in 2014. At-home salad consumption has risen since 2010, but is moving away from freshly-chopped lettuce and toward bagged greens and salad kits, with bag sales expected to reach $7 billion per year by 2022.

---
#### 41. What does the **bold part** about John Evelyn mean?
1. Unlikehis friends, he did not try hard to eat fresh salad greens.
2. He tried, but generally failed to persuade others to eat fresh salad greens.
3. His friends wanted to follow what John Evelyn did but they gave up.
4. He, with little effort, followed his friends in eating fresh salad greens.
5. He finally managed to convince his friends to try fresh salad greens.

---
#### 42. The purpose of the 1665 letter was to \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
1. ask for some vegetable seeds
2. send vegetables of green color
3. inquire for more information about vegetable roots
4. express gratitude for the seeds received
5. highlight the friendship in growing greens

---
#### 43. The phrase “*your honor*” in the letter refers to \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ .
1. Governor of New Jersey
2. Director of New Netherland
3. Governor of New York
4. King of the Island of Curaçao
5. Governor of Delaware

---
#### 44. Which one has the longest history?
1. Salad bar
2. Salad restaurant
3. Salad day
4. Salad kits
5. Salad oil

---
#### 45. Which statement is **TRUE**?
1. Vegetables were not tasty in the 16th century.
2. Salad was very popular in Scotland.
3. Salt was associated with salad during the Roman times.
4. In the mid-17th-century, letter writing was the only means of communication.
5. Salad kits consumption outnumbers bagged greens.


---


</div></div>


---
# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/64-p4-structure-and-writing/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Part Four: Structure and Writing (Items 46-60)
### Items 46-50
Choose the underlined part that is grammatically wrong.

#### 46.
> In the (1) <u>pre-clinical</u> stage of vaccine (2) <u>testing</u>, researchers give the vaccine to animals (3) <u>to see</u> if (4) <u>they cause</u> an immune (5) <u>response</u>.

---
#### 47.
> (1) <u>Having</u> high blood pressure is (2) <u>a</u> serious medical condition (3) <u>is</u> associated with and (4) <u>increased</u> risk of (5) <u>both</u> heart attacks and strokes.

---
#### 48. 
> Losing weight and (1) <u>be</u> physically active (2) <u>help</u> lower your risk of (3) <u>overweight-related</u> diseases, (4) <u>such as</u> diabetes and (5) <u>some</u> types of cancer.

---
#### 49. 
> Many people enjoy (1) <u>doing</u> yoga in the sun, (2) <u>but</u> people who (3) <u>they are</u> sensitive to high temperatures (4) <u>may</u> find yoga in the heat (5) <u>uncomfortable</u>.

---
#### 50.
> (1) <u>Most</u> professional gamers (2) <u>normally are paid</u> by (3) <u>their</u> teams or sponsors (4) <u>to compete</u> in one of the (5) <u>biggest</u> e-sports tournaments around the world.

---
### Items 51-55
Choose the best answer.

> According to statistics from Family First Aid, about 30 percent of teenagers in the U.S. \_\_\_(51)\_\_\_, either as a bully or a victim. Data suggests that teenage bullying is more common among younger teens than it is among older teens. This is likely because young teens are more vulnerable \_\_\_(52)\_\_\_ physical bullying.
> 
> Physical bullying is mostly seen with boys \_\_\_(53)\_\_\_ teenage girls often favor verbal and emotional bullying. Girls report that they are often the targets of nasty rumors, \_\_\_(54)\_\_\_ sexual gossip. Additionally, girls are more likely to use exclusion as a teenage bullying technique than \_\_\_(55)\_\_\_.

---
#### 51.
1. have experienced bullying
2. were experiencing bullying
3. have experienced to bully
4. were experiencing to be bullied
5. have experienced to be bullying

---
#### 52.
1. on
2. for
3. at
4. to
5. of

---
#### 53.
1. wherever
2. because
3. if
4. as far as
5. so that

---
#### 54.
1. include
2. includes
3. to include
4. included
5. including

---
#### 55.
1. they are
2. they use
3. boys are
4. boys did
5. do boys

---
### Items 56-60
Choose the best answer.

> **White Lies**
> (A) Most people believe that \_\_\_\_\_\_ . (B) However, nearly everyone still occasionally lies. (C) \_\_\_\_\_\_ . (D) White lies, for example, are usually not serious. (E) Many people tell white lies to avoid hurting someone else. (F) For example, a husband might lie and say that his wife’s cooking is great, even though he doesn’t like it that much. (G) More examples of white lies take place at work. (H) In contrast, black lies or telling lies to gain personal benefit are universally condemned. (I) For example, a car dealer may lie to customers about the condition of the cars that are for sale. (J) In many cases, it is better to tell a white lie than to hurt someone with the truth. (K) Yet, it does not mean that white lies are always desirable and **have no negative consequences**. (L) Therefore, we need to be careful to make sure that the white lies we tell are \_\_\_\_\_\_ .

---
#### 56. Which one should be inserted in (A) as the topic sentence for this paragraph?
1. children do not lie but adults do
2. we are all honest people
3. telling the truth is a practical norm nowadays
4. honesty is the most important quality
5. lying is not acceptable and should be avoided

---
#### 57. Which one can be added in (C) to make a good paragraph?
1. Telling lies is not always bad
2. Lying can upset people
3. Colors are categorized into lies
4. Corresponding examples are all lies
5. People need to lie more

---
#### 58. Which one has the closest meaning to the highlighted part in (K)?
1. make people agree and follow
2. cause no harm or danger
3. yield higher income and interest
4. promote harmony and collaboration
5. create positive responses and input

---
#### 59. What would be the best choice to conclude the last sentence (L)?
1. harder to predict
2. strongly discouraged
3. honest and well crafted
4. not really hurting anyone
5. to be used at the maximum

---
#### 60. Which sentence **DOES NOT** really belong in this paragraph?
1. E
2. D
3. G
4. J
5. F

---


</div></div>


------
