---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-gat/66/"}
---


> [!NOTE] ข้อสอบความถนัดทั่วไป (GAT) ปี 2566
> มีทั้งหมด 5 ส่วน
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/66#! 66-S1-P1 Question-Response\|Section 1 Part 1 Question-Response]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/66#! 66-S1-P2 Short Conversations\|Section 1 Part 2 Short Conversations]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/66#! 66-S1-P3 Longer Conversations\|Section 1 Part 3 Longer Conversations]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/66#! 66-S2-P1 Text Completion\|Section 2 Part 1 Text Completion]]**
> - **[[1.GAT 📝/66#! 66-S2-P2 Reading Comprehension\|Section 2 Part 2 Reading Comprehension]]**

---
# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/66-s1-p1-question-response/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Section I: Speaking Skill (items 1 - 30)
## Part I: Question-Response (Items 1 - 10)
Directions: Choose the best response to each of the following questions

#### 1. 
> A: Do you usually talk on the phone?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
 
1) I called my mum this morning.
2) I don't often talk to friends.
3) No, I prefer texting.
4) Yes, hardly ever.

---
#### 2.
> A: Why are you wearing a bandage?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
1) I have a bad stomach ache.
2) I think it's too expensive.
3) was in a car accident.
4) I'm going to a concert.

---
#### 3. 
> A: Do you have these trainers in a 10?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
1) Are there any good films showing?
2) How long will the movie last?
3) I don't like horror films at all.
4) I've already seen the movie.

---
#### 4.
> A: How about going to the cinema?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
1) It'll take more than 10 minutes
2) They all have left the gym.
3) The next train leaves at 11.
4) I'll take a look for you.

---
#### 5.
> A: Why did you change your hairstyle?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
1) I want to look at the model.
2) It's more expensive to wear.
3) I wash it in the evening.
4) It's the latest fashion

---
#### 6.
> A: What's your favorite tourist attraction?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
1) I often go sightseeing and take pictures.
2) That would be the Eiffel Tower in Paris.
3) Traveling alone is a lot of fun for me.
4) Lots of tourists come to Bangkok.

---
#### 7.
> A: How often do you clean your room?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
1) Every weekend.
2) In the evening.
3) Once or twice.
4) For one hour.

---
#### 8.
> A: What does your father do?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
1) He does a good job.
2) He's in an office.
3) He's retired.
4) He's fined.

---
#### 9.
> A: How long does it take to travel from Chiang Mai to Bangkok?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
1) He is a friendly person.
2) He likes science.
3) He scored well.
4) He lost his dog

---
#### 10.
> A: What's the matter with your friend?
> B: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
1) He is a friendly person.
2) He likes science.
3) He scored well.
4) He lost his dog

---


</div></div>


---

# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/66-s1-p2-short-conversations/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




## Part II: Short Conversations (Items 11 - 20)
Directions: Choose the best answers to complete the following conversations.

> Conversation 1
> 
> Joe: Hello Pete, how have you been? Long time no see!
> Pete: \_\_\_\_(11)\_\_\_\_. We haven't seen each other for months. How have you been?
> Joe: I have an important event to organize next week. That has kept me very busy. \_\_\_\_(12)\_\_\_\_.
> Pete: Oh! I just finished a meeting with an important client. Now I have some free time.
> Joe: Good for you. \_\_\_\_(13)\_\_\_\_ catch up with each other sometime after next week?
> Pete: Sure. \_\_\_\_(14)\_\_\_\_ when you have finished your project.
> Joe: Okay. Bye, take care.

#### 11.
1) It's been a long day!
2) It's a matter of luck!
3) What a surprise!
4) Time's up!

---
#### 12.
1) How do you like it?
2) Are you with me?
3) How about you?
4) Are you sure?

---
#### 13.
1) Why do we need to
2) Don't you want to
3) Do you agree to
4) Why don't we

---
#### 14.
1) Give me a call
2) Catch me up
3) Make a line
4) Check out

---
> Conversation 2
> 
> Student A: Excuse me. \_\_\_\_(15)\_\_\_\_ where the university bookstore is?
> Student B: Yes, it's that way. \_\_\_\_(16)\_\_\_\_ Sun Street, and then turn right. It's in the white building across from the Faculty of Architecture.
> Student A: Thanks! \_\_\_\_(17)\_\_\_\_, so I don't know my way around yet.
> Student B: I have also been studying here for a year, and I still don't know all the places on campus!

#### 15.
1) Are you also going
2) Could you tell me
3) Can I show you
4) Is this the way

---
#### 16.
1) Go one block to
2) Be careful of
3) Take off at
4) Move from

---
#### 17.
1) It's not convenient to get around
2) I've already been there before
3) It's easy to follow directions
4) I'm here for the first time

---
> Conversation 3
> 
> Doctor: Good afternoon. \_\_\_\_(18)\_\_\_\_.
> Patient: Good afternoon, doctor. I have a sore throat and cough a lot.
> Doctor: \_\_\_\_(19)\_\_\_\_ these symptoms?
> Patient: For a couple of days now. I have a bad headache and feel very tired, too.
> Doctor: It sounds like you've got the flu. Take one paracetamol every four hours. Drink lots of fluidsand \_\_\_\_(20)\_\_\_\_. You should feel better in a day or two.

#### 18.
1) What seems to be the problem?
2) Do you have any allergies?
3) Do you think you're ill?
4) What's your diagnosis?

---
#### 19.
1) When did you start to have
2) How long have you had
3) Have you ever had
4) Do you still have

---
#### 20.
1) get plenty of rest
2) go to the hospital
3) take it seriously
4) enjoy yourself

---


</div></div>


---

# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/66-s1-p3-longer-conversations/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




## Part Ill: Longer Conversations (Items 21 - 30)
Directions: Choose the best answers to complete the following conversations.

> Conversation 1
> 
> Dan: \_\_\_\_(21)\_\_\_\_ the new action series on Netflix?
> Sarah: No, what's it about?
> Dan: It's about a man who was sent to jail for killing his best friend.
> Sarah: \_\_\_\_(22)\_\_\_\_.
> Dan: You're right. But that's not the whole story. See, the man didn't kill anyone. He escapes from prison and searches for the real killer.
> Sarah: \_\_\_\_(23)\_\_\_\_ .
> Dan: I don't know. I've only seen the first episode.
> Sarah: How many episodes are there?
> Dan: \_\_\_\_(28)\_\_\_\_ .
> Sarah: Is there anyone in it I might know?
> Dan: One of the actors has been in a few Marvel movies, but I don't know his name. He played Loki.
> Sarah: Do you mean Tom Hiddleston? I love Tom Hiddleston! \_\_\_\_(25)\_\_\_\_ .

#### 21.
1) How often do you watch
2) Have you seen
3) What about
4) Do you see

---
#### 22.
1) It doesn't look interesting.
2) It doesn't sound exciting.
3) I like Korean series.
4) I think it's funny.

---
#### 23.
1) What channel is it on?
2) What time is it on?
3) How does it end?
4) How is he doing?

---
#### 24.
1) 30 minutes each.
2) Twelve in total.
3) Every Sunday.
4) Six hours.

---
#### 25.
1) I want to see a Marvel movie!
2) He ruins every character.
3) He's a marvelous actor!
4) I think I'll pass.

---
> Conversation 2 (On the phone)
> 
> Susan: Hello
> Carol: Hello, is Susan there?
> Susan: \_\_\_\_(26)\_\_\_\_ .
> Carol: Hi Susan, it's Carol.
> Susan: Carol! How are you?
> Carol: Actually, can you \_\_\_\_(27)\_\_\_\_ .
> Susan: Sure. What is it?
> Carol: Well, my parents are going out of town next weekend. Can you we \_\_\_\_(28)\_\_\_\_ to the airport on Saturday?
> Susan: No problem. What time does your flight leave?
> Carol: It leaves at noon, but I should arrive three hours before departure.
> Susan: How about I \_\_\_\_(29)\_\_\_\_ at eight a.m.?
> Carol: That sounds great. \_\_\_\_(30)\_\_\_\_ .
> Susan: No problem. See you Saturday!


#### 26.
1) Just a moment, please.
2) Please, call back later.
3) My name is Susan.
4) Speaking

---
#### 27.
1) send me a favor
2) help me a favor
3) pay me a favor
4) do me a favor

---
#### 28.
1) give me a hand
2) give me a lift
3) go for a drive
4) go for a ride

---
#### 29.
1) send you off
2) drive to you
3) pick you up
4) receive you

---
#### 30.
1) What's the problem?
2) When can we meet?
3) I really appreciate it.
4) I'll pass it on.

---

</div></div>


---
# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/66-s2-p1-text-completion/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




# Section II: Reading Skill (items 31 - 60)
## Part I: Text Completion (Items 31 - 45)
Directions: Choose the best answers to complete the following passages.

### Passage 1 (Items 31 - 38)

> Dear Mr. Weasley,
> 
> It is my great \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(31)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ to congratulate you on receiving the 100,000 baht Government Association Scholarship for the 2023-2024 academic year, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(32)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ will enable you to enroll in Hogwarts College. The selection committee \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(33)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ your talents, achievements, and need for support in reaching your academic goals.
> 
> The funds will be given during the course of the following academic year. You can use the money to pay for \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(34)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ during the pre-registration and registration periods, as specified in the scholarship. Any remaining funds may be used to purchase textbooks, school materials, and other school-related items in the Hogwarts bookstore. The remaining money will be transferred to your account approximately four to eight weeks after registration. We \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(35)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ a booklet that will guide you through our scholarship program.
> 
> On behalf of the scholarship committee, I \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(36)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ warmly congratulate you once again \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(37)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ you continued success throughout your college career. We \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(38)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ welcoming you as a student at Hogwarts College. If you have any questions, please contact Mr. Harry Potter in Room 456 of our scholarship office in the main building or call (662) 456-7890.
> 
> Sincerely,
> Professor Albus Dumbledore
> Chairman of Scholarship Committee

#### 31.
1) pleasure
2) pleasant
3) pleasing
4) pleased

---
#### 32.
1) which
2) what
3) when
4) who

---
#### 33.
1) recognizes
2) reviews
3) reminds
4) returns

---
#### 34.
1) extracurricular activities
2) transportation costs
3) apartment rents
4) tuition and fees

---
#### 35.
1) will have enclosed
2) will be enclosed
3) have enclosed
4) are enclosed

---
#### 36.
1) would appreciate
2) would be great
3) would agree to
4) would like to

---
#### 37.
1) desire
2) prefer
3) hope
4) wish

---
#### 38.
1) look forward to
2) look up to
3) look after
4) look for

---

> Passage 2 (Items 39 - 45)
> 
> In 1997, the average Thai person consumed 19 teaspoons of sugar a day. That's \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(39)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ the amount of daily sugar intake recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO), which is only six teaspoons. More than a decade later, each Thai person consumes an average of 25.5 teaspoons of sugar per day, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(40)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Various campaigns to combat the nation's excessive sugar consumption.
> 
> A recent study by the University of Zurich shows that consuming too much sugar doubles the body's fat production in the liver. In the long run, this an \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(41)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ the development of diabetes or fatty liver disease. To prevent health problems among Thai consumers, the Public Health Ministry aims to build health literacy among the public through health-promotion activities, lower-sugar recipes for drinks, and \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(42)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ . The ministry has therefore targeted sugary drinks in its latest campaign to limit \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(83)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  among Thais. The ministry signed a memo of understanding with health agencies to promote beverages with reduced sugar. In 2017, Thailand began taxing beverages \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(44)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ more than 6 grams of sugar per 100 ml. The tax is adjusted every two years in a bid to reduce excess consumption of sugar and \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(45)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ the industrial sector to adjust gradually.

---
#### 39.
1) three more than times
2) more three times than
3) more than three times
4) three than more times

---
#### 40.
1) however
2) although
3) whereas
4) despite

---
#### 41.
1) succeed in
2) result from
3) depend on
4) lead to

---
#### 42.
1) more responsibility marketing
2) more responsible marketing
3) any responsibility marketing
4) any responsible marketing

---
#### 43.
1) harmful sugar consumption
2) food industry expansion
3) sweet tooth permission
4) bubble tea production

---
#### 44.
1) containing
2) contained
3) contains
4) contain

---
#### 45.
1) to approve
2) to admit
3) to access
4) to allow

---


</div></div>


------
# 
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/2-gat-by-part/66-s2-p2-reading-comprehension/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




## Part II: Reading Comprehension (Items 46 - 60)
Directions: Read the following passages and choose the best answer for each question.

### Passage 1 (Items 46 - 50)
> Hi Sandra,
> 
> (1) How's it going? We haven't been in touch for ages. Hope all's well with you. Life's pretty busy here as usual. I've got a new job as a tutor at teaching Italian, math, and basic science. I've been working there for almost three months now. It's hard work but I really enjoy it. Teaching young kids is so exciting for me.
> 
> (2) Anyway, the really big news is I'm pregnant. We were so surprised. I've been told I'm having twins. Jack and I are ***over the moon*** but a bit nervous though. We'll be off on a trip to London this weekend. We want to see Nina and Dylan there. I need some advice from them because they also have twins.
> 
> (3) Miss you so much! Always remember our good old days in Tokyo as exchange students 10 years ago. I'd love to hear all your news. Are you still working in Bangkok? ***We***'ve just moved to a bigger house so maybe you can come and visit us sometime here in Liverpool.
> 
> Looking forward to hearing from you!
> 
> Love,
> Evelyn

#### 46. What does the phrase "over the moon" in the second paragraph mean?
1) Very stressed
2) Very pleased
3) Very amused
4) Very worried

---
#### 47. Where does Evelyn live?
1) Liverpool
2) Bangkok
3) London
4) Tokyo

---
#### 48. Who does the word "we" in the third paragraph refer to?
1) Evelyn and Sandra
2) Evelyn and Dylan
3) Evelyn and Jack
4) Evelyn and Nina

---
#### 49. Why will Evelyn travel to London this coming weekend?
1) She wants to get her friends’ tips for raising twins
2) She has an appointment with Sandra and Nina.
3) She is slightly nervous about her pregnancy.
4) She was hired by a tutoring school there.

---
#### 50. What can be inferred from the email?
1) Evelyn's husband is not ready to be a parent.
2) Dylan and Nina are not friends of Sandra's.
3) Evelyn's pregnancy was unexpected.
4) Sandra is still working in Bangkok.

---
### Passage 2 (Items 51 - 55)
> To all staff members,
> 
> (1) We are delighted to announce that Henry Norton has earned a well-deserved promotion to Director of Marketing, effective December 1, 2022. He joined us from the branch in Singapore and has been part of our organization for the past 9 years, during which time he has held positions in sales and management, proving himself to be a committed company advocate.
> 
> (2) Henry has shown complete ***dedication*** during his time here. He has brought with him honesty and enthusiasm that he has continued to demonstrate while encouraging the sales team to consistently improve their sales numbers. With his extensive experience, we are certain that he will exhibit excellent performance and leadership.
> 
> (3) The company would like to congratulate him on his success and wish him a promising future. We are going to host a party to celebrate his new position. We hope you can join us for the party.
> 
> Regards,
> Caroline Parker
> President


#### 51. What kind of announcement is the above text?
1) Organizational restructuring announcement
2) New employee announcement
3) Promotion announcement
4) Sales announcement

---
#### 52. Which word is closest in meaning to the word “dedication” in the paragraph?
1) Sincerity
2) Devotion
3) Patience
4) Faith

---
#### 53. What is __NOT__ a reason for Henry Norton's success in his career?
1) He has demonstrated leadership potential.
2) He has increased the sales staff numbers.
3) He is an enthusiastic employee.
4) He has wide work experience.

---
#### 54. What is __NOT__ a way the company honored Henry Norton's achievement?
1) The company arranged a party to celebrate his new position.
2) The company wished him a bright future at the company.
3) The company informed the staff of his promotion.
4) The company gave him permission to relocate.

---
#### 55. Why was Henry Norton promoted to a higher position?
1) He rewarded his staff's contribution to the company's increased sales.
2) He displayed qualities which helped to increase company sales.
3) He organized a number of business projects for the company.
4) He worked in the Singapore branch for around 9 years.

---
### Passage 3 (Items 56 - 60)
> (1) Located on the east coast of Scotland, St Andrews is known as the ‘home of golf,’ but it's a residence shared by some highly ***disruptive*** roommates seagulls. As they circle for food, ***the fear of being the unfortunate landing spot for their waste is a constant anxiety***, with several staff and fans already voicing complaint.
> 
> (2) Fans navigating the Old Course during the week will be familiar with a pair of hawks, an Indian eagle-owl, and a tawny eagle. The guardian birds perch on their handler's gloves to scare off seagulls from the picnic area, as well as the 1st and 18th grandstands. The birds come from the nearby Elite Falconry, hired for the event, with the handler named John on lunchtime duty for Thursday's opening round after a flurry of seagull activity during the early morning.
> 
> (3) "Without us here, the seagulls would be dive-bombing people trying to steal their food," John told CNN Sports. Since seagulls are not a typical cuisine of the four birds of prey, they don't fly around the course and instead sit calmly on their handler's glove for the duration of their watch, their presence alone enough to frighten away ***the unwanted visitors***.


#### 56. Which word is closest in meaning to the word "disruptive in the first paragraph?
1) Disappointing
2) Troublesome
3) Greedy
4) Noisy

---
#### 57. In the first paragraph, the clause "the fear of being the unfortunate landing spot for their waste is a constant anxiety" means the staff and fans .
1) are afraid that the seagulls will attack
2) are concerned about becoming dirty
3) are anxious about wasting their time
4) are worried about the birds' safety

---
#### 58. What is John's main duty?
1) To supervise the grandstands and picnic area
2) To navigate fans across the Old Course
3) To control the birds of prey
4) To prepare lunch

---
#### 59. In the last paragraph, who or what does the phrase "the unwanted visitors” refer to?
1) The food-stealing people
2) The four birds of prey
3) The seagulls
4) The fans.

---
#### 60. Why do the birds of prey **NOT** fly around the golf course during the match?
1) They prefer to sit quietly on their handlers gloves.
2) They are’ trained’ to attract only unwanted visitors.
3) They come from Elite Falconry with a handler.
4) They do not hunt seagulls for food by nature.

---


</div></div>


---
